    
    Is there a difference in cost between the functions of creating a new state variable or changing it?
Yes. Creating is more expensive than changing.

////
Struct packing to save gas
In Lesson 1, we mentioned that there are other types of uints: uint8, uint16, uint32, etc.

Normally there's no benefit to using these sub-types because Solidity reserves 256 bits of storage regardless of the uint size. For example, 
using uint8 instead of uint (uint256) won't save you any gas.

But there's an exception to this: inside structs.

If you have multiple uints inside a struct, using a smaller-sized uint when possible will allow Solidity to pack these variables together to take up less storage. For example:

struct NormalStruct {
  uint a;
  uint b;
  uint c;
}

struct MiniMe {
  uint32 a;
  uint32 b;
  uint c;
}

// `mini` will cost less gas than `normal` because of struct packing
NormalStruct normal = NormalStruct(10, 20, 30);
MiniMe mini = MiniMe(10, 20, 30); 
For this reason, inside a struct you'll want to use the smallest integer sub-types you can get away with.

You'll also want to cluster identical data types together (i.e. put them next to each other in the struct) so that Solidity can minimize the required storage space. 
For example, a struct with fields uint c; uint32 a; uint32 b; will cost less gas than a struct with fields uint32 a; uint c; uint32 b; 
because the uint32 fields are clustered together.
////
View functions don't cost gas
view functions don't cost any gas when they're called externally by a user.

This is because view functions don't actually change anything on the blockchain – they only read the data. 
So marking a function with view tells web3.js that it only needs to query your local Ethereum node to run the function, 
and it doesn't actually have to create a transaction on the blockchain (which would need to be run on every single node, and cost gas).




Because you can use this method to query the event logs since the beginning of time, this presents an interesting use case: Using events as a cheaper form of storage.

If you recall, saving data to the blockchain is one of the most expensive operations in Solidity. But using events is much much cheaper in terms of gas.

The tradeoff here is that events are not readable from inside the smart contract itself. 
But it's an important use-case to keep in mind if you have some data you want to be historically recorded on the blockchain so you can read it from your app's front-end.

For example, we could use this as a historical record of zombie battles — we could create an event for every time one zombie attacks another and who won.
The smart contract doesn't need this data to calculate any future outcomes, but it's useful data for users to be able to browse from the app's front-end.

////Gas Considerations
Gas, described in more detail in [gas], is an incredibly important consideration in smart contract programming. Gas is a resource constraining the maximum amount of computation that Ethereum will allow a transaction to consume. If the gas limit is exceeded during computation, the following series of events occurs:

An "out of gas" exception is thrown.

The state of the contract prior to execution is restored (reverted).

All ether used to pay for the gas is taken as a transaction fee; it is not refunded.

Because gas is paid by the user who initiates the transaction, users are discouraged from calling functions that have a high gas cost. It is thus in the programmer’s best interest to minimize the gas cost of a contract’s functions. To this end, there are certain practices that are recommended when constructing smart contracts, so as to minimize the gas cost of a function call.

Avoid Dynamically Sized Arrays
Any loop through a dynamically sized array where a function performs operations on each element or searches for a particular element introduces the risk of using too much gas. Indeed, the contract may run out of gas before finding the desired result, or before acting on every element, thus wasting time and ether without giving any result at all.

Avoid Calls to Other Contracts
Calling other contracts, especially when the gas cost of their functions is not known, introduces the risk of running out of gas. Avoid using libraries that are not well tested and broadly used. The less scrutiny a library has received from other programmers, the greater the risk of using it.

Estimating Gas Cost
If you need to estimate the gas necessary to execute a certain method of a contract considering its arguments, you could use the following procedure:

var contract = web3.eth.contract(abi).at(address);
var gasEstimate = contract.myAweSomeMethod.estimateGas(arg1, arg2,
    {from: account});
gasEstimate will tell you the number of gas units needed for its execution. It is an estimate because of the Turing completeness of the EVM—it is relatively trivial to create a function that will take vastly different amounts of gas to execute different calls. Even production code can change execution paths in subtle ways, resulting in hugely different gas costs from one call to the next. However, most functions are sensible and estimateGas will give a good estimate most of the time.

To obtain the gas price from the network you can use:

var gasPrice = web3.eth.getGasPrice();
And from there you can estimate the gas cost:

var gasCostInEther = web3.utils.fromWei((gasEstimate * gasPrice), 'ether');
Let’s apply our gas estimation functions to estimating the gas cost of our Faucet example, using the code from the book’s repository.

Start Truffle in development mode and execute the JavaScript file in gas_estimates.js: Using the estimateGas function, gas_estimates.js.





Gas optimization course

Main things:
1 - Deployment (smaller contrast, better)
2 - Transaction data sent
3 - Amount of memory that was used 
4 - Storage
5 - State changes that took place 
6 - Op-codes that are executed

____
When you transfer ETH only it always costs 21k gas, every ETH transaction should cost 21k gas min
Gas is how much computing power it needs to execute 
(ERC costs more than transferring ETH)
Calc gas - gas price * ether price * gas cost (used by execution)
Gas prices vary on how loaded the blockchain is

Ethereum limits the amount of computations per block (gas)
If a block has too many, it will be difficult for nodes to verify the transactions
The block limit is 30 million gas (vary)
If we use only ETH transfers 21k gas we can fit 1428 transfers in one block

New block - every 15 seconds on ETH
Throughput 2 - 95, transactions per second, average 13
If a transaction cannot fit into the block it will revert
____

With You, we can see a slot of a variable! 
slotLocation := varName.slot

Op-codes - the more you execute the more expressive the function will be
Each op-code costs a different amount of gas, and optimizing the op-codes saves a lot of gas
Transactions in the bytecode hashed by: funcName(type1,type2)
Saving the transaction data into the blockchain costs gas, by giving the function hashed bytecode it saves the bytes, and that costs around 60+ gas (each byte in the transaction data costs gas, non zero bytes are more expensive)
Memory:
The 1st 64 bytes are for scratch space hashing methods 
Memory slots - 32 bytes
Every time we expand the memory by 32 bytes we pay 3 gas (if we try to access a memory location it does 3 gas for each previous slot when accessing it)

A payable function is cheaper, because when a non-payable function is executed there are few op-codes that check if we have CALLVALUE and check if it is 0, and if it is not 0 we revert!

Adding an unchecked block when doing the math it does less opcodes cuz it need to check after each action if the number fit into the size of the variable.
If we have tokens that are less then the max unit256 and there is not mint function, when we can put an unchecked function where we add tokens to the account, cuz we know we can never exceed it!

The 21k gas:
1 - transaction is well-formed (no additional training bytes)
2 - valid signature
3 - valid nonce
4 - the sender account has no contract code deployed (EIP-3607)
5 - the has limit is smaller than the intrinsic gas, used for a transaction
6 - the sender has enough to cover the cost

When creating a contract we have to pay extra gas

EIP-1559:
A portion of the transaction is burned, not going all to the miner
BASE_FEE - varies for every block (min fee) - it is burned!
MAX_FEE - should be higher than base, it is not good practice to put just a little bit higher than base, cuz the base fee could go up and our transaction could not be executed
PRIOTIRY_FEE - like a tip to a miner (amount of the leftover he will take)

MAX_FEE - BASE_FEE = leftovers - PRIORITY_FEE = refund 
(if PRIORITY_FEE is bigger than leftovers, then the miner will get all the leftovers and there’s no refund)

Optimizer:
By default: 200 - make the data for deployment less and it costs less to deploy
If we increase the value of the optimizer we get a more costly contract to deploy but cheaper functions
Tip:
Deploy with different optimizers and see when the cost of the transactions stops going down, it could cost more to deploy the contract but users and us who interact with it, would be cheaper. And for widely spread contract that people interact with, it is always the best to cut the costs of the functions!
(Set it as height as possible until you stop seeing improvement)


STORAGE
_________

1 - Setting Storage from 0 to non-zero - 20k
2 - Setting Storage from non-zero to non-zero - 5k
3 - Setting Storage from non-zero to zero - Refund
4 - Setting Storage to save value - 100

Pay 2,1k if 1st time accessing a variable in the transaction 
Pay 100 more if it was already touched

Ethereum treads all Stored variables by storage slots of 32bytes
So even if we use different types or smaller units, gas costs stay the same!

If we access a storage var and we expect it to not change we can add an if statement that is not = ‘already accessed var’ and save even more gas
